# BlindfoldTrainer
Blindfold chess is a form of playing chess where one or both players visualize the chess board instead of looking at a physical board. Moves are spoken instead of being played. Blindfold simuls are played by blindfold chess masters, who play games simultaneously against many sighted opponents. Training to play blindfold games is quite difficult to do for several reasons. The first is that it simuls are extremely time consuming taking many hours to complete, though the length of time depends heavily on the number of games and the strength of the players involved. The second is that it is difficult to find opponents to play in blindfold simuls; a blindfold master must either find a large number of people willing to play chess for an extended period of time, or another blindfold master. It is difficult to find either. One can try to play blindfold simuls online, but again one must find opponents willing and able to play, and online simuls do not fully replicate the conditions of a classical blindfold simul; this tool attempts to make certain aspects of training easier.
## Memory Training
There are two major components of blindfold simuls: chess playing ability, and memory. Chess players must be able to both play good moves for a given game, and remember the current positions of all the games. This tool targets the memory component of blindfold simuls. Pgns (the file type for chess games) can be loaded into the tool. The user can select a number of the chess games, and then begin the simul. The computer then speaks the moves of the games following conventional blindfold simul order. For every move that is played, the user must acknowledge the move, either by pressing a button, the space bar, or speaking 'Accept the Move'. The program will run through all of the moves of the game, and once completed, the user can compare their memory of the current position with the game itself as displayed by program such as Chessbase Reader (or equivalent). The user does not come up with the moves to play, but they must be able to remember all of the positions, and it would be a helpful exercise to come up with some candidate moves for a given position.
### Game Source
An excellent play to obtain PGN files is The Week in Chess by Marc Crowther. Numerous top level tournament games are available for download there.
### Speech Recognition
The speech recognition option for accepting the move is only available if it has been turned on in the Configs.cs file. When speech recognition is on, other methods of acknowledging the move are not accepted. Speech recognition does work, but some reliability issues have been observed.
## Future Enhancements
### Position Check
By far the most important improvement would be to add a position check. This would allow the user to speak the position to the computer, and receive feedback on any errors they may have made. This is also by far the most difficult tool to add for two reasons. Firstly, differentiating between things like  'a' and 'e' (file columns) is important, but is also more difficult. The second difficult thing is that the program currently does not know what the current position is. It simply feeds the moves to the user. This functionality would have to be added in order to check for correctness. However, given that this feature is extremely helpful in developing blindfold skill, it is of high priority.
### Save History
It is best to be repeatedly exposed to different games, instead of going through the same games over and over. Thus it would be useful to be able to know if a game had been already played through, which could be achieved by storing a unique identifier for each game once it has been completely played through. 
### Config Settings
It would be best to store configurations in a file that can be edited without having to rebuild the project so that settings can be changed in a released version. 
### UI Improvement
The UI could be visually improved, particularly the top taskbar.
